# TOTVS-AI-Challenge

First the data was loaded and a matrix with each sale and 30 features was formed. The features were basically how much each of the 24 products were consumed and the others were generated by the date information such as: hour, weekday, minute, tables (in wich table the sale was consumed). The first week data was discarded, because was noticed that it has fewer data, and since it has started on 5 January, probably its an abnormal period that could biased the prediction of the last week of the month.

The features were selected by their importance second a GradientBoost classifier. The 9 first features, which correspond of 90% of the accumulated sum of importance were chosen.

The outliers were removed by the Mahalanobis distance and the data was fitted by a SVM.

For generating the samples for the next week a Kernel Density estimator was used. After the sample generator obtained samples were generated 3000 times, and in each, the number of samples was choosen from a random number between the number of sales in the second week (577) and the third week(605).

In each of the 3000 simulations, the data was predicted with the SVM classifier fitted and the total cost of each sale were summed. In the end, the forecast is the average of the 3000 simulations.

Results:

Test error: 1371.19966936
CV error: 1248.25633084
Most relevant features: day, hour, minute, weekday, tables, BUFFET, CERVEJA LATA, SUSHI ESPECIAL, VINHO
MIN FORECAST SALES FOR THE NEXT WEEK: 31233.1821807
MAX FORECAST SALES FOR THE NEXT WEEK: 32991.6588929
FORECAST SALES FOR THE NEXT WEEK: 32112.4205368


The results were coherent since the mean squared error from the cross validation and test were close, and the min,max and forecasted value are close to the sales of the second week (32139.799999999999) and third week(34590.639999999999).
